# Amrish puri as an automation engineer.
Amrish puri is remembered as a tall and well-built man.
he is born on 22 June 1932 in Nawanshahr, Punjab, British India (present-day Nawanshahr, Punjab, India) and died on 12 January 2005 in Mumbai, Maharashtra, India at the age of 72.
Amrish puri first came to Bombay in the early 1950s.
Amrish Lal Puri was born in Nawanshahr, Punjab, to Lala Nihal Chand and Ved Kaur. He had four siblings, elder brothers Chaman Puri and Madan Puri, elder sister Chandrakanta, and a younger brother, Harish Puri.
After completing his graduation from B. M. College in Shimla, he moved to Mumbai to pursue his career.
It was Ebrahim Alkazi who got him into automation in 1961.
Amrish puri was very interested in his job, he said that this work gives him satisfaction and he feels creative and enjoys doing it.
He gave interviews for many companies trying for jobs but he failed later, he found a job with the Employees' State Insurance Corporation Ministry of Labour and Employment (ESIC).he worked as a government employee for 21 years.
eventually, he also got a job as a tester and he started his career as a manual tester, in the beginning, a lot of companies still perform just manual testing but automation testing saves a lot of time so he focused on the skills needed for automation like java, selenium, and eventually moved to automation engineer. observing the way he works a big company offers him a job.
He was good at solving problems. he got appreciated for his professionalism and his skills, in handling the situation, managing the team. he had good knowledge of automation tools and in troubleshooting the problem.
because of his hard work, his excellent coding skills in choosing the right framework, and his knowledge in tools, he got recognization in the company.
He then became a senior automation engineer who handled different teams and guided them. his troubleshooting skills were very good and he was contributing to his employee company.
He started his career working as a manual tester. It's a small start-up where he learned testing, Spent time doing exploratory testing, reading testing-related blogs
as a Manual tester he has to process test applications manually. do manual testing is to find the defects and then have to intimate the developer to fix that issue. so many open sources are available to test applications automatically. But in previous days these manual testers play a very important key role in the testing of the software product.
he was responsible for conducting the testing, thereafter analyzing the reports, and then submitting his observations to the development team. If issues are found he had to assign that bugs to particular developers to fix that issue. After getting the fix, They will release that product. During this time he has started learning Java and Selenium with which he has developed an application that will do some specific operations based on user inputs. And started automating specific parts of the application to play around with automation testing.
he was giving interviews than for the role of automation tester, during the initial phase it was a bit difficult as he was asked regarding different framework structures, reporting, selenium in-depth concepts, etc,
And started his automation career by developing the framework from scratch using Ruby with selenium.
Automation engineers can design, program, simulate and test automated machinery and processes, and usually are employed in industries such as the energy sector in plants, car manufacturing facilities, or food processing plants and robots. Automation engineers are responsible for creating detailed design specifications and other documents, developing automation based on specific requirements for the process
His work was to design test cases, scenarios, and aspects which have to be validated, at what levels? Automation itself can be delegated to a more experienced programmer. he used to decide what not to automate and leave for manual testing. For instance, visual consistency is a good candidate for that. he used to Test performance and API with tools that require fewer programming skills.
For instance, SOAP UI can help you verify JSON Web services. it was not necessary to program, but he got more familiar with different technologies (HTTP, JSON, etc.) and the internal architecture of the application. he used to Troubleshoot failing test cases. Even if he was not automating tests, he helped others to find, why the test is failing. Learning when, where, and why the system fails will help him in writing better test cases.
He had spent at least 3 or 4 hours a day learning new tools and improving his skills. he also got interview offers from different countries and he got selected and worked for different organizations.
He got awards like employee of the year, Excellence Awards in his company.
As an automation engineer, he had to work closely with other teams to help discover and eliminate problems by gathering requirements and implementing process automation.
He became a senior automation engineer and he was responsible for utilizing engineering methods to automate processes and infrastructure. stabilize testing processes, troubleshoot equipment, design effective systems that interact with client-side functionality, and test plans for large-scale projects.
He once said automating is something I will always do; it gives me great satisfaction. The response is instant. You are either appreciated or rejected. Besides, it gives you a chance to play all the roles that you would like to. I turn to automation for troubleshooting satisfaction."
He worked for 40 years in this automation field and died in Mumbai at the age of 72.